GINGERBREAD MAN:

Prep:
20 mins
Cook:
10 mins
Additional:
4 hrs
Total:
4 hrs 30 mins
Servings:
24
Yield:
2 dozen cookies




INGREDIENTS:
3 cups flour

2 teaspoons McCormick® Ginger, Ground

1 teaspoon McCormick® Cinnamon, Ground

1 teaspoon baking soda

¼ teaspoon McCormick® Nutmeg, Ground

¼ teaspoon salt

¾ cup butter, softened

¾ cup firmly packed brown sugar

½ cup molasses

1 egg

1 teaspoon McCormick® Pure Vanilla Extract



DIRECTIONS
Step 1
Mix flour, ginger, cinnamon, baking soda, nutmeg and salt in large bowl. Set aside. 
Beat butter and brown sugar in large bowl with electric mixer on medium speed until light and fluffy.
 Add molasses, egg and vanilla;mix well. Gradually beat in flour mixture on low speed until well mixed. 
Press dough into a thick flat disk. Wrap in plastic wrap. Refrigerate 4 hours or overnight.

Step 2
Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Roll out dough to 1/4-inch thickness on lightly floured work surface. 
Cut into gingerbread men shapes with 5-inch cookie cutter. Place 1 inch apart on ungreased baking sheets.

Step 3
Bake 8 to 10 minutes or until edges of cookies are set and just begin to brown. 
Cool on baking sheets 1 to 2 minutes. Remove to wire racks; cool completely. 
Decorate cooled cookies as desired. Store cookies in airtight container up to 5 days.



Gingerbread Cookie Variations:
White Chocolate Kissed Gingerbread Cookies: Prepare and refrigerate dough as directed.
 Shape into 1-inch balls. Roll in granulated sugar. 
Place 2 inches apart on ungreased baking sheets.
 Bake in preheated 350°F oven 8 to 10 minutes or until edges of cookies just begin to brown. 
Immediately press a white and milk chocolate swirled kiss-shaped candy into center of each cookie.
 Remove to wire racks; cool completely. Makes 5 dozen.

GINGERBREAD WHOOPIE PIES
Gingerbread Whoopie Pies with Lemon Creme: Prepare and refrigerate dough as directed. 
Shape into 1-inch balls. Roll in granulated sugar. Place 2 inches apart on ungreased baking sheets. 
Bake in preheated 350°F oven 8 to 10 minutes or until edges of cookies just begin to brown. 
Remove to wire racks; cool completely. 

LEMON CREME
For the Lemon Creme, mix 1 jar (7 ounces) marshmallow cream, 1/4 cup (1/2 stick) butter, softened, 
4 ounces cream cheese, softened, and 1 teaspoon McCormick(R) Pure Lemon Extract in medium bowl until well blended. 
To assemble whoopie pies, place about 1 tablespoon filling on the flat side of 1 cookie. 
Top with a second cookie, pressing gently to spread the filling. Roll edge of whoopie pie in 1 cup crushed peppermint candy. 
Repeat with remaining cookies, filling and candy. 
Store whoopie pies between layers of wax paper in airtight container in refrigerator up to 5 days. Makes 2 1/2 dozen.


CARAMEL PECAN GINGERBREAD THUMBPRINTS
Caramel Pecan Gingerbread Thumbprints: Prepare and refrigerate dough as directed. 
Shape into 1-inch balls. Place 2 inches apart on ungreased baking sheets. 
Bake in preheated 350 degree F oven8 to10 minutes or until edges of cookies just begin to brown. 
Immediately press a pecan half into center of each cookie. Top each with 1/4 teaspoon of caramel topping. 
Remove to wire racks; cool completely. Drizzle cookies with 2 ounces semi-sweet baking chocolate, melted. 
Let stand until chocolate is set. Makes 5 dozen.


ALMOND GINGERBREAD COOKIES
Almond Gingerbread Cookies: Prepare and refrigerate dough as directed. Shape into 1-inch balls. 
Roll in 1 1/3 cups sliced almonds, pressing almonds into dough. Place 2 inches apart on ungreased baking sheets. 
Bake in preheated 350 degree F oven 8 to10 minutes or until edges of cookies just begin to brown. 
Remove to wire racks; cool completely. Makes 5 dozen.


Nutrition Facts
Per Serving: 158 calories; protein 2g; carbohydrates 24g; fat 6.1g; cholesterol 23mg; sodium 125.3mg. 
